Previously on Cross...
Badge and gun.
You started all this when you reported me.
You're not blood, you're not bone.
You're just my friend.
Or you were.
Now you're just somebody
I used to work with.
- [grunting]
- [Nana Mama] Two witnesses said
Deirdre Nolan
had an accomplice.
I need you
to give me that name.
- No! No!
- [Cross] Are you okay? Look like
- you've seen a ghost.
- [Kayla] Two John asked me
to look into this guy, White Mike,
that might be connected to Ramsey.
Still in Philly,
only now as "Michael Grisham."
[Ramsey] I can't believe
the day is finally here.
Don't worry about that little cut
on the side of your face.
I'm gonna have somebody
take care of that properly.
[Cross] Shannon is
Ramsey's last victim.
- Who's your friend?
- She's the one that found
- the witness we're gonna use
to burn you down.
- Witness?
You guys have a witness?
- Are you sure?
- Mom...
[gunshot]
[gasps, pants]
Welcome.
The State of Florida has invited you
to participate,
if only as a witness,
in that most solemn of occasions,
the execution of a condemned criminal.
The purpose of this video is
to familiarize you
with the process you will see today.
Now, I know you may not wish to be here.
I know your sympathies may lie
with the condemned.
I can only remind you that we live
under the rule of law in this great state.
[ominous music playing]
Under the guidance
of medical professionals,
the state has devised a protocol
for lethal injection.
A sequence
of three medications is delivered
via injection into an intravenous line.
The first is sodium pentothal,
a sedative, for the comfort
of the condemned.
Next comes pancuronium bromide,
a paralytic, to induce stillness and calm.
Finally, a dose
of potassium chloride is administered,
which stops the heart.
After an appropriate interval,
a medical professional confirms
the efficacy of the procedure.
That concludes my presentation.
I hope it will prove to be of some use
and, perhaps, comfort to you.
Thank you for your kind attention,
and God bless.
♪ ♪
[Nana Mama] It's almost 7:00.
You need to go put your shoes on,
get ready for school,
- Damon.
- Oh, they're on.
[laughing] Oh, not those.
Those go in here.
What? Why?
I'm not gonna have people thinking
I've given up on you.
- Shoot.
- All right. Well, I'm just saying, though.
- Like, if that's what it takes.
- [Nana Mama] Damon.
You tried to get me to throw
my Js away back in the day, too.
- Seriously?
- "Tried" nothing. You threw 'em out.
I did.
Yes, I did, but...
I rescued 'em
from the trash later that day,
wore 'em for another two months
when she wasn't looking.
- Oh.
- Mm-hmm.
But then she found out,
and I couldn't sit for a week.
[Nana Mama laughs]
[continues chuckling]
Mm.
Hey, you ready for rehearsal tonight?
- [Nana Mama] Hmm.
- I think so.
Dad, can I wear Mom's watch
for the recital?
♪ Don't you try to make excuses...
She would love that.
But you know what?
You should wear it tonight at rehearsal
so you get used to playing with it on.
[Nana Mama] That can wait.
Go upstairs and tell your sister,
get her little behind down here
in four minutes,
or you're gonna be late for school.
♪ Fool out of me, I know...
Ah.
Yeah.
So, you plan on coming back
after you drop them off?
I have something I want to talk about.
I got time now.
I talked to your friend... Kowaleski?
U.S. Attorney Kowaleski?
- She dropped by to see you.
- So why was she talking to you?
Because I wanted answers about
whoever it is
that's been giving us all that trouble.
And I got them.
Oh, Nana, Nana,
this is not for you to be doing.
You know, there may come a time
that I'll allow you
to tell me what I should be doing,
but that's... not today.
She sent me to see a retired detective.
He gave me the name
of a man named "Peter Lenox."
If you and Sampson can get over
whatever nonsense is,
is you all are going through,
you need to go see Peter
before someone gets hurt.
At least, not somebody I care about.
♪ I ain't gonna tell you no more ♪
[phone buzzing]
♪ You're making a fool
out of me, a fool...
Hey, what up, Vega?
You fuck...
[engine revving]
Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck!
[indistinct chatter]
Alex, stop.
Witness wasn't answering his phone.
Massey called for a welfare check.
Patrol came out, found the victim dead.
GSW to the head.
Listen, Detective, you can't be here.
- It's a fucking safe house.
- I know.
Have to be a ghost to get in and out
without being seen.
[eerie music playing]
[Caitlin] Gin and tonic.
No, just gin.
[Cross] Are you okay?
You look like you've seen a ghost.
A ghost.
Yeah.
♪ ♪
[Sampson] A safe house.
Patrol schedules.
That takes some real weight.
Command staff.
Money could be a motive.
Fucking Ramsey.
Anyone ever make you an offer?
Of course.
Never understood why you'd take this job
if you weren't out to do it right.
I knew you'd say that.
Soon as we got pregnant, I told Alicia
that little man here was going
to need a role model.
Someone to show him what a man should be.
I was hoping that could be you, Two John.
Will you be his godfather?
Why me?
You have no idea how rare you are, do you?
You let him hang with me,
he gonna see some things.
- I'm counting on it.
- [chuckles]
All right.
Thank you.
I can't tell you how much peace of mind
this gives me.
Now, how are we gonna catch Ramsey?
First thing we got to do
is we got to close the loop.
The only people working on this
are people we trust.
So it's probably best if Anderson...
...doesn't know.
Probably.
Step careful.
And if you get anything--
I mean anything--
- you let me know.
- For sure.
[laughs softly]
[eerie music playing]
♪ ♪
- Now, listen...
- Yes...
[indistinct conversation]
- [gasps]
- [Avery] Hey.
Get out!
You want to talk to me. It's about Ramsey.
I'm fine.
Everybody's fine.
Give us a minute.
I promise you, Morris, we're fine.
I'm going to assume
that whatever brings you here
is awfully damn important.
I found a witness that could put
Ed Ramsey away for murder.
Really? Who?
Doesn't matter. He's dead.
Somebody got into a police safe house
and put a bullet in his head.
[scoffs] Why are you here?
I started thinking about what kind of pull
Ramsey would need to get to that witness,
started thinking about his friends,
I was wondering
about what shook you up so badly
at Ramsey's party,
like you'd seen a ghost.
But I bet it wasn't a ghost, was it?
[chuckles] Uh, I'm not sure what you mean.
I-I did eat something--
No games. No, no, no, not today.
I know Ramsey owns you,
and I swear, Madam Speaker,
I will expose you.
Get out.
Now.
[atmospheric music playing]
Are you asking because you think
you can catch Ramsey?
Yes. And save Shannon.
What about me?
Are you fucking serious right...
Look, tell me something I can use
to save Shannon,
I swear, I will never mention your name.
I see her every night.
Running from him.
I wanted to believe it was something else.
Anything.
Then I saw the blood.
The blood?
There was this moment.
She realized she couldn't get away.
She sliced her face open.
[Ramsey] Such beautiful green eyes.
Aileen had brown eyes.
- Go fuck yourself.
- [chuckles]
I could do that,
or I could let you make a phone call
to your parents, to say goodbye.
Would you like that?
[exhales]
[dark music playing]
Happy birthday, Aileen.
I want my phone call.
I always thought "spitting image"
was a strange phrase,
and then I learned
it was originally "spirit and image,"
as if the likeness also captures
the essence of someone.
That makes sense to me now.
You may be the best work
I've ever done, Aileen.
- Eat shit.
- I was thinking coffee.
Here.
This was Aileen's last meal,
a cup of coffee,
so it's very important to me
that you drink it.
I've gotten people to eat
seven-course meals,
so I will get you to drink this coffee.
The question is,
the easy way or the hard way?
There's your spitting image.
You know, any other day,
that would really piss me off.
But not today.
[grunting]
[sobbing]
[grunts]
♪ ♪
It's beautiful, isn't it?
[Shannon breathing deeply]
Time to celebrate.
- Think I might have
to take a look at this.
- That's a good idea.
Here you go, y'all.
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
[upbeat music playing]
Mm-mm.
- Hey.
- Thanks for coming, y'all.
- Are you kidding?
Ben's Chili and a shot at Ramsey?
That's easy.
And you throwing around words
like "circle of trust"
- make a bitch feel special.
- [laughter]
[Cross] Bar can't be too high.
- I'm here.
- Yeah, only 'cause I vouched for you.
Look, you're all here
because I need you here, all right?
Whatever my personal feelings are,
I trust each and every one of you,
when it comes to work.
But I can't have you saying
where you are or what you doing.
- Y'all cool with that?
- [all] Mm-hmm.
All right.
We're back to square one with Ramsey.
The only way we gonna find him
is to find out where he's hiding Shannon.
The way these makeovers go,
he's got to be getting close.
He was. But he had a setback.
Shannon cut her face, at the party.
I spoke to someone who saw it happen.
Well, you want to say who, motherfucker?
Or you just gonna sit on that information?
[Kayla] Okay, ladies,
you're both very smart and pretty.
Can we move on? The clock's ticking.
The point is, Ramsey won't kill her
with a gash on her face.
She won't match Aileen.
- She bought herself some time.
- That's some serious gangster shit.
Bought us some time, too.
Vega, De Lackner,
I need you to tail Ramsey, all right?
And don't let him shake you.
Oh, we got to find him first.
- I can help with that.
- All right.
Shall we?
I need you to hang back.
Do your thing.
What you gonna do?
Well, you had to be right about
another mole in the department,
and that can't stand, so...
Never thought it'd be Anderson.
- Guess it adds up.
- Yeah, I don't know about that.
No?
She's been salting this investigation
from the jump.
We know she's friends with Ramsey.
- Mm-hmm.
- She knows the location of the safe house,
patrol intervals.
Only problem is,
when it comes to the logs last night,
I checked them, and she was home.
Because it wasn't her.
If you don't spill
what's in your head right now...
You remember what Coach Keller said
about taking hits when we started boxing?
It's the ones you don't see coming
that really hurt.
Pretty sure whoever's working with him
is the one who leaked
that video of me, Two John.
There's only two people
that could've been.
Two.
And I know it wasn't you.
[labored breathing]
- [Pendleton] Sir.
- What?
I need to talk to you.
[keys clicking]
Bobby Trey came to see me.
The Feds blocked his money.
How...
[exhales] Never mind.
Just tell him to come by the house later,
I'll make sure he gets his money.
Wait. Give me your phone.
- Why do you need--
- Just unlock it.
[breathes shakily]
[atmospheric music playing]
[Ramsey] So close.
I can't believe it's finally happening.
Give me a hand with her.
[Ramsey] We all have secrets.
I'm ready to bring mine into the light.
[Cross] Each of those victims was
transformed to resemble a serial killer.
[Hardy] Fingerprints on page 26...
[Sampson] You think the Fanboy
corresponded with these freaks.
[Hardy] Profile matches Herb Baumeister.
[Nana Mama singing]
[Vega] Aileen Wuornos.
[Massey] Several of the pages
contain mementos.
[Cross] "Sandman."
[Ramsey] I would do anything
- to be an only child.
- ♪ And I say to myself ♪
[pounding table]
O-Oh.
I-I'm sorry.
I-I didn't mean to disturb you.
Uh, no, no, it's fine.
That song.
- What is it?
- [chuckles]
♪ Whoa, yeah ♪
[chuckles] Louis Armstrong.
And not a damn cover. [chuckles]
[contemplative music playing]
♪ I see friends shaking hands...
[Sampson] Your girl's taking you
to a serial killer's birthday party?
[Ramsey] Oh, come on, Alex.
It's my birthday.
You know, this is really
a milestone birthday for me.
♪ What a wonderful world ♪
Shit.
[monitor beeping steadily]
[labored breathing]
[Ramsey] You're allowed diazepam,
for the anxiety.
Would you like some?
Want to be here as long as I can.
Suit yourself.
[exhales]
[Shannon breathing shakily]
[distant chirping]
[wind whooshing]
♪ You're beautiful ♪
♪ That's for sure ♪
♪ You'll never, ever fade ♪
♪ You're lovely ♪
♪ But it's not for sure ♪
♪ That I won't ever change ♪
♪ I'm like a bird ♪
♪ I'll only fly away ♪
♪ I don't know where my soul is ♪
♪ I don't know where my home is ♪
- [De Lackner] How is that?
- [Vega] Pretty good.
- You want some?
- [De Lackner] No.
Today. He's gonna kill her today.
And you-you know this how?
Look, the Fanboy,
he's been at this for years--
years-- and we never had a clue.
But now, while we're still
investigating Emir,
he takes another one?
Starts doing all kinds of risky shit
that can get him caught? Why?
- Because he finally found his Aileen.
- And...
he could've waited
another six months to take her,
and we still wouldn't know he exists.
- But he has to do it now.
- Mm-hmm, and all the victims,
they disappeared just before the birthdays
of the killers
that they were matched with.
- So--
- Oh, shit.
- What?
- [Kayla] It's Aileen's birthday today.
February 29th. Leap year.
If he doesn't kill her today,
he's got to wait four more years.
That's why he's taking risks
he never took before.
[De Lackner] Hold on, now.
He needs her to be perfect,
and you said that she cut her face.
- How's that gonna work?
- I know it doesn't make any sense--
It does.
This is Ramsey we're talking about.
He uses other people to fix his problems,
so he would find someone to fix her.
- It's gonna take more than makeup.
- Right.
He would need a plastic surgeon.
[eerie music playing]
What-- What happened?
♪ ♪
[door closes]
Any hope?
I think I know where he's hiding Shannon.
Are you serious?
- Who else knows?
- Just me.
Good. Keep it that way until you're sure.
- Where do you think she is?
- Before I get into that, I...
...I just need to know how this works.
Do you call him?
Text?
You wait for me to leave?
Or wait, no. You probably...
You know what?
You'd probably do it right in front of me.
[exhales]
You must be wondering what he's got on me.
Because it's the secrets, right?
We all have things we're ashamed of.
People like you and me,
we have more than most.
It's all strings for him to pull
so he can make people dance.
But the real trick is finding something
that makes them want to dance.
He dangles your dream in front of you.
And it is the things that you want
more than anything in the world
that bring out the worst in you.
A baby.
Alicia and I, we used up
all our savings and all our benefits.
We don't even own this house anymore.
- It was never gonna happen.
- How did he know?
You tell me.
One call, and we are sitting in a clinic
with the world's foremost
fertility specialist and a translator.
And the doctor says one thing in English:
"I can promise you a baby."
[exhales]
And for that, you kill a man?
It started with the little things.
Wrong, but easy to think it was worth it.
And by the time he asks you
to do something that crosses the line
that you thought you had...
you realize you are already way past it.
Yeah, and the only way to cover up
something bad is to do something worse.
Right?
I don't have to go away for this, John.
My son needs me.
- Stop. Stop. No.
- And I pay for my crimes every time
- I close my eyes.
- You did not pay! You didn't pay!
Emir Goodspeed paid.
Mother Goodspeed is still paying.
Shannon Witmer paid.
Me, Cross, we paid.
You didn't pay shit.
All the way to that bullshit about me
being your-your kid's godfather--
That was real. I wasn't playing you.
How do you expect me
to believe anything you say right now?
I asked you
to be there for Alicia and the baby
because I knew I wouldn't.
I asked, and you said yes.
And you keep your promises.
Please.
[tense music playing]
You're right.
I do.
[elevator bell chimes]
[atmospheric music playing]
♪ ♪
[Akbar] You have the right
to remain silent.
Anything you say can and will be
used against you in a court of law.
You have the right to an attorney.
If you can't afford one,
one will be provided to you.
Do you understand the rights
that I've read to you?
[elevator bell chimes]
[Cross] Dr. Daine.
Detective Cross.
Uh, what can I do to help you?
You can tell me why you're helping
Ed Ramsey torture Shannon Witmer.
What?
- I'm not, I--
- Cut the shit.
[distant siren wailing]
[sighs]
I didn't, I didn't want to help him,
I swear to you.
- He was just another client and--
- You had a choice.
You could've called the cops,
but you didn't.
No, but I did everything I could
to help her.
I-I cleaned her wound,
I-I left her healthy.
Well, tell me that counts for something.
What does he have on you?
No. No, I can't, I-I...
You don't understand.
If it got out,
God, I couldn't face my mother.
I-I would have to move,
I would lose my practice.
You mutilated a kidnapped woman
just so you don't have
to do a change of address?
I am so sorry, I'm so... sorry.
The things that he made me do...
Hey. Whatever he knows,
I can make it go away,
if you help me find him.
I know where he is.
But that place,
the things that he does there...
Tell me and I can make it stop.
Oh, thank you. Thank you.
Thank you.
- [needle sticks]
- [Cross grunts softly]
[eerie music playing]
Ed Ramsey isn't blackmailing me.
He inspires me.
He's an artist.
- [grunts]
- A visionary.
And whatever I can do
to help him realize that vision,
I will do happily.
If it were up to me,
you would be dead right now,
but he wants you to witness
his exhibition.
Eventually.
[grunting]
Night-night.
[elevator doors close]
♪ ♪
[monitor beeping]
I would ask you to recite
Aileen's last words,
but I already know you won't, so...
"Yes, I would just like to say
that I'm sailing with the rock,
and I'll be back,
like Independence Day, with Jesus."
Back like Independence Day.
With Jesus.
Poetry.
Are you ready?
Don't.
[beeps, hisses]
First comes the sedative,
so you won't feel a thing.
Nothing to do now
but let nature take its course.
I hate you.
- [♪ Miner: "Tomorrow"]
- ♪ Let the wave ♪
- ♪ There will be better days ♪
- ♪ Wash over me ♪
- ♪ There will be better days,
there will be better days ♪
♪ There will be better days ♪
- ♪ Let the wave ♪
- ♪ There will be better days ♪
- ♪ Wash over ♪
- ♪ Me ♪
- ♪ There will be better days...
[beeps, hisses]
[Ramsey] And now the paralytic,
exactly as it was for Aileen.
- ♪ I am already ♪
- ♪ There will be better days ♪
- ♪ Under ♪
- ♪ There will be better days...
And finally,
the curtain of death falls.
[machine beeps]
♪ There will be better days ♪
♪ Let the wave wash over me ♪
So Anderson didn't say anything?
- What's there to say?
- Something.
Just be glad you weren't there.
- Yeah.
- Okay.
Fuckin' hell.
You got any news?
Look, I've had about
all the news I can take today.
Massey was in it with that asshole.
Must be why she wouldn't give me
surveillance on that doctor.
- Mm-hmm.
- Hold up.
- What doctor?
- [De Lackner] Daine.
Cross wanted eyes on her.
- Massey knew about Daine?
- Yeah.
- Where's Cross now?
- I don't know.
- ♪ Let the wave ♪
- ♪ There will be better days ♪
♪ Wash over me ♪
[gasps]
- Welcome back.
- [monitor beeping]
What happened?
The chemicals, they...
they didn't work for some reason.
[breathing heavily]
[chuckles] No, no, not like that, Shannon.
It wasn't a mistake.
It was part of the reenactment.
Same thing happened with Aileen.
The first try got botched
by the State of Florida.
But don't worry.
We'll get it right this time.
[breathing heavily]
[dramatic music plays]
- Sugar!
- [Cross groans]
What happened?
- She drugged...
- Hold on, I'm calling you an ambulance.
No, there's no time.
The app, use it.
I grabbed her on her way,
I stuck my phone in her purse.
If she hasn't noticed...
Is that it?
Yeah.
♪ ♪
[tires screeching]
Just turned on to Potomac,
headed southwest.
[Vega] Could be headed to the harbor.
No, she's headed to Buzzard Point.
Just give me the word,
I can get air support.
No. I don't know who we can trust,
and I ain't taking any chances.
Just catch up.
[engine revving]
You all right?
Almost myself again.
[Pendleton] Connecting, and we're live.
[Shannon sobbing quietly]
Twenty-eight years ago, Herb Baumeister,
the Westfield Strangler, woke me up.
Made me feel something.
Exposed to me the secret.
And when they found the bones on his farm,
people asked,
"How could God let this happen?"
And I said, "What God?"
[beeps, hisses]
You see, I had lost my faith years before
because I, like so many,
had bought into the big lie.
That in the modern world,
there is no room for faith
when everything is seen
and everyone is known.
They almost had me believing...
that there is no mystery left.
No sacred place where God can live.
No more secrets we may tremble
to discover.
[tires screech]
We're here. We're going in.
Hold up.
But there is one secret left.
The first one.
- The only one that matters.
- [beeps, hisses]
Death.
That single inescapable truth
that terrifies people so much
they will convince themselves
of anything to avoid it.
But Herb made them face it.
I watched my community try desperately
to deny the power that Herb had over them,
but they couldn't.
And I realized that what he was doing
wasn't just powerful...
it was art!
And in that moment I knew...
...that I, too, could be an artist.
I could remind people that death
sits beside them on the train
and lives in the apartment next door.
I could create a masterpiece
to remind people
that there are gods
who understand this last mystery,
and in doing so...
...become one of those gods myself.
Today, my masterpiece
is complete.
Don't do it! Get your hands up.
You, too, crazy-ass bitch.
[Cross] Step away from her.
[beeps]
Don't move.
[both groan]
I'll take care of Shannon.
You go find that motherfucker.
- Hands up! Drop it. Drop it!
- Don't you move! Don't you fucking move!
[grunts]
She's alive.
[eerie music playing]
♪ ♪
[clunk nearby]
[grunts]
♪ ♪
- [tires screeching]
- [loud crash]
[tires screeching]
[Kayla] No.
Shit!
How is she?
- She's got a pulse. Steady.
- Good.
That motherfucker got away.
He could be anywhere.
No, not anywhere.
[engines revving]
[door crashes open]
[intense music playing]
Get your hands up right now.
You really see me, Alex.
- I appreciate that.
- Hands!
You know, there's so much truth
in this room.
Ramsey, drop it.
And that's why this is where
it has to happen.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Shoot.
[intriguing music playing]
- [Cross] No, no, no.
- [Kayla] Shit.
[grunting]
Hey, come on.
Hey, he's gone.
[♪ Milo Greene: "Please Don't"]
♪ Please don't tempt my heart again ♪
♪ Weakness is a poor defense ♪
♪ Please don't, please don't ♪
♪ Please don't tempt my heart again ♪
♪ A love like yours ain't innocent ♪
♪ Please don't, please don't ♪
♪ Thought I was the last one
that you'd love ♪
♪ Thought that what I gave
would be enough ♪
♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh ♪
♪ Time was just a melody of fate...
You guys found that girl.
It's all over the news.
Thanks. Guess that means
this is on the house.
You know what, today it is.
- Ah. Mm-hmm.
- Aw, you're too kind.
Thank you, Tana Lee.
You're all right?
Food okay?
Mm-hmm.
♪ Please don't, please don't ♪
Did we get a guard up on Shannon?
That doctor might not be
Ramsey's only fan.
It's taken care of.
Hey. Cheer up.
What could possibly be
the problem right now?
The killer's dead, the victim's safe,
and Santa got it right this time.
Did that feel like justice to you?
We got plenty of justice.
Now you're all out of that other thing
you was after.
- And you gonna tell me what that is?
- Distraction.
Without this case, you might actually
have to work on yourself.
[scoffs] Boy, I tell you.
♪ Please don't tempt my heart again ♪
♪ Weakness is a poor defense ♪
♪ Please don't, please don't ♪
♪ Please don't tempt my heart again ♪
♪ Love like yours ain't innocent...
Working on yourself is overrated,
trust me.
- ♪ Please don't...
- What is this?
That name you gave us. Peter Lenox.
That's everything we have on him,
including his last-known address.
- Oh, thank God.
- Hey, Nana.
You're a lifesaver.
An angel called me at the last minute
with tickets for
my All Blacks. Hey!
You know they only show up
every few years.
No, you cannot miss them.
All that eye candy.
- [Nana Mama laughs]
- I'm glad I could help.
Yeah, well, it's just a rehearsal
for Damon,
but I'll make it for the real thing.
No problem.
Um, would you tell Miss Nancy
that he'll have on a special watch,
but if it, if it gets in the way,
- he can take it off.
- I sure will.
Hey, Nana, I just want to ask,
is there a reason Miss Nancy
couldn't give the kids a ride?
Of course she could, but I...
Oh, no, I'm happy to do it.
Just made me wonder if there was a reason
you asked me.
What other reason would that be?
We are good friends, aren't we?
You're doing me a favor.
- [laughs]
- Of course we are. Of course.
Okay, well...
here's another favor.
Would you try not to judge my grandson
on his worst day?
- Okay. Thank you.
- You go have a good time.
- Yeah.
- Don't worry about a thing.
- Okay. Thank you, sweetie.
- Okay?
- Have fun.
- All right.
[engine revs, turns off]
[atmospheric music playing]
♪ ♪
[ominous music playing]
Hey, hold on. Who sent the flowers?
I don't know. I just deliver.
[protestor] Fuck Alex Cross!
♪ ♪
[Deirdre] Peter, I can't stop thinking
about our last visit.
I wish you wouldn't worry
about me so much.
This isn't your fault.
Dee-Dee, tell me who did that to you.
Brenda Leeland?
But-but you can't do anything.
She'll kill me.
She runs the guards in here.
I'll get to her somehow.
I-I already told you last time
I don't want you to do anything
that gets you in trouble.
Just go live your life, okay?
Mine's already over.
I don't know what to do.
There's nowhere to go.
[Peter] This is my fault.
Stop saying that, okay? It's not on you.
I'm-a get you out.
That's what I'm-a do, I'm-a get you out,
and then I'm-a make Cross pay.
[dramatic music playing]
[piano playing]
Damon's gonna kick that girl's butt.
Miss Jannie! [laughs]
Listen, this is not a competition,
it's just a rehearsal.
But you're right, Damon's about to get it.
[plays final note]
[cheers and applause]
[clears throat] I have had the privilege
of getting to know this young man's
family recently,
and I can tell you that his gifts
are no surprise.
They have been nurtured with great love
and just a little bit of discipline
when absolutely necessary.
[laughter]
Please help me welcome to the stage
Damon Cross.
[cheers and applause]
[Jannie] Yeah! Bring it, Damon!
[piano playing]
[Cross over phone] There's something
missing, Kayla.
There's something missing.
It's-it's another piece
- somewhere in here I can't find.
- [Kayla] Okay, slow down.
What's not there?
It's not physical, it's-it's motivational.
This guy, he's full of guilt.
He blames himself for
what happened to Deirdre.
Follow your instinct. Should he?
No idea. There's nothing here I can find
that suggests he did anything.
[Kayla] He did something.
What makes you say that?
You say that you're standing
in a shrine to hate.
The simplest answer is the letters
all back up
the idea that he's carrying immense guilt.
It could be survivor guilt.
Blames himself for living
while she didn't.
Survivor guilt is passive.
Suicidal. It's not homicidal.
He did something, and the only way
to make it right is another action.
- Alex, where'd you go?
- It's what you said.
I'm looking around at the products
of an unbelievable obsession.
Yes.
Years of focusing, years
of planning, of...
of delayed gratification.
That's the definition of active.
- Yes.
- ♪ All our times have come ♪
A guy like that, he's never gonna give up.
♪ Here, but now they're gone ♪
[cheers and applause]
- Yeah!
- ♪ Seasons don't fear the reaper ♪
♪ Nor do the wind and the sun
and the rain ♪
♪ We can be like they are...
Get out of the way. Get out of the way.
Get out of the way.
Shit.
♪ Don't fear the reaper ♪
♪ Baby, take my hand...
Officer Farley, hot chocolate,
extra chocolate, extra milk.
You are too good to me, Mrs. Witmer.
The world was too good to me today.
I gave up on it for a while,
but it surprised me
and returned my daughter to me.
I guess it did.
♪ Valentine is done ♪
♪ Here but now they're gone ♪
♪ Romeo and Juliet ♪
♪ Are together in eternity ♪
♪ Come on, baby ♪
♪ Don't fear the reaper ♪
♪ Baby, take my hand ♪
♪ We'll be able to fly ♪
♪ Don't fear the reaper ♪
♪ Baby, I'm your man ♪
♪ All our times have come ♪
♪ Don't fear the reaper ♪
It's still my day.
♪ Here, but now they're gone ♪
♪ Don't fear the reaper ♪
[vocalizing]
♪ All our times have come ♪
♪ Don't fear the reaper ♪
[elevator bell chimes]
[ominous music playing]
- Evening.
[indistinct chatter over P.A.]
♪ ♪
Is that really her in there?
Yeah. Never thought they'd find her alive.
Neither did I.
Just goes to show you,
when things look shitty,
you can still make it all
work out in the end, right?
Do me a favor, watch him for a sec.
I just need to check on her.
Uh, just need to see your ID.
Oh, that's no problem at all.
It's right here.
[grunting]
[Becky] You're all right now.
Daddy went home to get the blanket
that Gamma made for you.
[Ramsey] Sorry to interrupt.
[Becky] Oh, I'm so glad
you're here, Doctor.
How's our patient doing?
She opens her eyes sometimes.
They say she's conscious,
but she can't move or talk yet.
The other doctor said all we can do
is wait till the drugs
get out of her system
- and hope.
- Good news.
The team and I had a chance
to talk about Shannon's case and...
I believe I have a way
to speed her recovery.
[Becky] That would be-- Oh.
Everyone is just so wonderful.
[Ramsey] Mm. Good.
I just need a moment to... examine her.
Oh, oh. Okay. Um...
- Thank you, Doctor.
- [Ramsey] Thank you so much.
[eerie music playing]
♪ ♪
So...
perfect.
No one is gonna forget you now.
- [gun cocks]
- [Cross] It's over, Ramsey.
[exhales]
I wanted it to be you, Alex.
I did, too.
[suspenseful music playing]
[clattering overhead]
Hello?
Alex?
♪ ♪
[growling]
Come on!
[both straining]
[Nana Mama] Let me go!
[both grunting]
[Nana Mama] Oh, Lord.
[grunts]
[intense music playing]
Next time on Cross...
Is that him?
You see this man, I want you to run.
What is this about?
Is... Peter in trouble?
[Cross] He's terrorizing a family.
My family.
♪ Take everything,
leave 'em with nothing ♪
[♪ Emanuel Vo Williams:
"Leave 'Em With Nothing"]
♪ Leave 'em with nothing ♪
♪ Leave 'em
with nothing ♪
♪ Take everything,
leave 'em with nothing...
[all screaming]
Do not hurt my children.
Do you hear me?
♪ Hey ♪
[atmospheric music playing]
♪ ♪